---
title: SSH, SOCKS, and RDP
tags: linux howto
layout: post
---

## *Another* article on SSH tunnels?
Well, kinda. The problem with many existing articles written
on SSH tunnels is they move past any problems, skip over complicated
commands, and in general don't treat people like the idiots we are. When
you deal with "local" and "remote" so much it becomes impossible to
read the text, so I am going to keep it simple and give you a set
of examples that I had problems with.

### Why I got started

An IP address is blocked at my work and it's related to network
setup. To avoid bugging people and creating more problems I decided
to simply use a fast VPN to tunnel the traffic.

Goals:

* General SOCKS proxy with custom Firefox profile

* RDP port forwarding (separate than SOCKS)

* SSH port forwarding (separate than SOCKS)

Every command I run will be ran on my "work computer" - This is the
computer that cannot access my "home computer"

    ssh blah blah blah # runs from work computer that cannot see home computer

The one other server is the "vpn" server, which is a server that can see both
my home and work computer. It's used to get around the IP/firewall block.

### Making a SOCKS proxy

Without getting into the differences a regular HTTP proxy won't
cut it. I need to use varying ports (not just HTTP port 80) such
as SSL.

From my work computer I create the port as root:

    sudo -s
    ssh -D 6985 root@vpn -i keyfile.key

Now my work computer has a SOCKS proxy running for port `6985` that will
actually make TCP connections via "vpn" instead of your local network. The
`-i keyfile.key` is optional and is if you use a keyfile instead of password. Note
you must be root because you may not be able to listen on ports.

### Create a Firefox Profile

Create a new profile called "Proxy" in Firefox:

    firefox -ProfileManager --no-remote

The `--no-remote` avoids an existing Firefox from stopping.
    
After creating you may want to run it again and select your default profile,
otherwise Firefox will continue to use your Proxy as your default profile. Now
to launch Firefox with the proxy profile:

    firefox -P Proxy --no-remote


Now in Firefox configure the SOCKS proxy:

* Go to Preferences

* Switch to "Advanced"

* Go to "Network" tab

* Click the "Settings" button

* Select "Manual proxy configuration"

* Clear the "HTTP Proxy", "SSL Proxy", and "FTP Proxy" host and set the ports to zero

* Set the "SOCKS Host" to "localhost" and the port "6985"

* Select "SOCKS v5"


Use something to verify your public IP in this Firefox is actually the remote machine. In
my case this means making sure my it's the IP address of my VPN and not my work machine. In my
case it also means the website actually loads and gets around the IP block. There are some
additional configuration variables in Firefox you can modify to use DNS through the proxy,
but I'll leave that to you.

### Other stuff besides SOCKS

In a perfect world I think that's it we would be done. However, most applications I need to use
are not SOCKS aware and are simply looking to connect to some IP on some port. I have two such
cases:

* SSH itself

* Remote Desktop Protocol (RDP)

My RDP client doesn't have support for SOCKS, and I don't know if many do, as well as making
an SSH connection to my home computer. For this we must make a tunnel that exposes this traffic
locally on my work computer using the vpn as a proxy:


	sudo -s
	ssh -4 -N root@vpn -i keyfile.key  -L "6922:1.2.3.4:22"

It's important to break down what is happening here:

* Should be root because you might be touching ports that are "restricted"

* `-4` tells SSH to only use IPv4 - This avoids listening on the wrong network address

* `-N` means were not actually running a command. This lets you CTRL+C close the tunnel

* `-i keyfile.key` is only needed if you are using keyfiles instead of passwords

* `-L` is the part that says make port `6922` on the computer running this command actually serve
contents from host `1.2.3.4:22`

After this runs you can SSH to the local port:

	ssh homeuser@localhost -p 6922

Now you have an SSH connection to your home computer from your work machine using the VPN
as a proxy. You can do the same for any port, so to do this with RDP we simply replace
`22` and `6922` with other ports. The default port for RDP is `3398` so the command
becomes:

	sudo -s
	ssh -4 -N root@vpn -i keyfile.key  -L "6989:1.2.3.4:3389"

## Problems with SSH tunnel

One problem you might have is the "bind" address says it's already being used. This can
be one of two things:

* The port is already being used by another app. For example, if you try to use port 80
and already are running Apache, it's using that port. In this case you need to pick
a different port number or stop apache (just pick a different port number)

* You are already forwarding to that port. If you ran the tunnel command it could still
be running, try running `ps -e | grep ssh` to see what SSH commands are running and if
you get desperate try `killall ssh` (could unmount your SFTP)

Another problem I ran into was being dumb at the Firefox configuration and putting my
address into the "HTTP Proxy" area when in fact it's a SOCKS proxy.

