---
title: Tor SOCKS5 Proxy Socket in NodeJS
tags: tor nodejs javascript
layout: post
---

Recently I started using `node-webkit` more, which means I'm
also using more `NodeJS` overall. One of the great things about
Node is that so many people publish modules and it does have a
very modular nomenclature. However, the main problem I have
found is that many modules do not work anymore.

I dusted off most if not all of the SOCKS5 sockets I could find
in NPM as well as some gists I found laying around on Github. None
of them worked:

* Some were out-dated and seem to be written before the Socket
  object was an `EventEmitter`, so they would do things like
  `self.ondata = someFunction` instead of `self.on('data', someFunction)`

* Some did not properly isolate the SOCKS5 data from the real socket
  data, causing applications to get junk data at the start of the
  connection

* None registered `connect` event bindings the way `connect()` on
  Socket does, causing other libraries to never see the connection

* None figured out `setEncoding` needed to be buffered until the
  connection was ready. This caused SOCKS5 packets to get encoded.

Overall it was not much work. You can see the code on Github:

* **Github Project:** https://github.com/krisives/socks5

## Connecting to Tor from NodeJS

While I am here I thnought I would explain how connecting
with / through Tor from NodeJS works - as that is my main
reason behind making the SOCKS5 socket object.

My application uses Tor let uses talk to each other without
using IP addresses or opening ports. They use the `.onion`
address that Tor assigns them.


There are three ports:

* The port running the SOCKS5 proxy, which by default in Tor is `9050`

* The port running the real socket server (could be port 8080)

* The "virtual" port that Tor users talk to access the real socket server (could be port 80)

I run `tor` from within Node as a `child_process` and read from it to get some
events, like when the Tor network is ready to use. I also fire up a server
socket on the internal port (for example, 8080) using `createServer()` and finally
create a `ProxySocket` object talking to port `9050`.

When I want to talk over Tor to say `irc.freenode.net` I do:

    var socket = new ProxySocket('localhost', 9050);
    
    socket.connect('irc.freenode.net', 6667, function () {
        // Yay connected
    });

And I get a socket that talks to `irc.freenode.net` over Tor. You
can also use `.onion` addresses.

For listening Tor automatically hooks it up so that sockets
connecting to your internal port (like 8080) will be passed
through Tor.
